a tough legal battle for Israel at the
international court of
justice its lawyers are attempting to
dismiss South African claims Tel Aviv is
committing genocide against Palestinians
saying its military is instead acting in
self-defense but the war cabinet of
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu is feeling the pressure and
international calls for an immediate end
to Israel's bombardment of Gaza are on
the rise the state of Israel will appear
before the international court of
justice at the hag to dispel South
Africa's absurd blood
liel South Africa is Israel's biggest
trading partner on the African
continent but its governing party the
African National Congress ANC continues
to criticize Israel's occupation of
Palestinian
territory in November South Africa
recalled its diplomats from Israel and
has since become its stest critic we
think that there is a textbook case of
genocide
unfolding um we think that the number of
people being killed particularly
children um is has a significant level
of gravity to it and that in in line
with ours and Israel's um
responsibilities as signatories to the
genocide convention we have a duty to
prevent and punish
genocide South African lawyers believe
they have a strong case at the un's
highest court they say Israel is either
committing genocide or failing to
prevent it the case may drag on for
months or years although it will be
asked here to investigate the crime of
genocide it's not going to come up with
criminal consequences it's going to come
up with consequences such as reparations
apologies the sorts of things you would
expect in a civil
case although criminal prosecutions are
not expected South Africa's lawyers hope
the icj will act quickly because of the
extreme and Urgent plight of
Palestinians in Gaza and Order Israel to
stop war and allowing
Aid such an order carries weight at the
UN and they hope that will create more
pressure among the International
Community to force Israel into ending
its military
campaign after more than 3 months of
Relentless bombardment and Slaughter
many people say they've lost their faith
in international institutions but many
countries are supporting South Africa
and is hoping this legal case could
succeed where politicians have so far
failed Hashim alar Al
jazer make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
zero